
 　　[摘要] 目的 分析在心源性心脏骤停心肺复苏患者予以集中护理管理模式的护理效果及对应激反应的影响。 方法 本研究选取我院收治的心源性心脏骤停心肺复苏患者88例，以2015年8月～2016年8月为样本选取时段，以抽签方式进行分组，其中予以常?护理管理的44例患者为对照组，予以集中护理管理模式的44例患者为实验组，对两组患者护理管理效果进行比较和分析。 结果 与对照组比较，实验组患者复苏1 h 的成功率明显较高、成功复苏消耗时间明显较少、预后良好率明显较高，复苏后实验组患者的血清IL-8、IL-6均明显较优，病死率明显较低，两组比较差异均有统计学意义（P<0.05）；而两组患者复苏总成功率比较，差异无统计学意义（P>0.05）。 结论 在心源性心脏骤停心肺复苏患者予以集中护理管理模式具有理想的护理效果，可将应激反应进行有效减轻，可对血气指标进行改善，对患者复苏进行促进，改善患者预后，值得应用和推广。
　　[中图分类号] R605.974 [文献标识码] B [文章编号] 1673-9701（2017）11-0142-04
　　Effect of centralized nursing management model on stress response in cardiopulmonary resuscitation patients with cardiogenic cardiac arrest
　　PAN Yongli XIA Jinming ZHOU Linqiong
　　Department of Emergency，Hangzhou Normal University Affiliated Hospital，Hangzhou 310015， China
　　[Abstract] Objective To analyze the nursing effect of centralized nursing management mode and its effect on stress response in patients with cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Methods 88 patients with cardiogenic cardiac arrest in our hospital from August 2015 to August 2016 were enrolled in this study. The patients were divided into two groups by ballot grouping. Among them， 44 patients with routine nursing management were included in the control group， 44 patients with centralized nursing management model were chosen as the experimental group.The nursing management effect between the two groups was compared and analyzed. Results Compared with that of the control group， the recovery 1h success rate of the experimental group was significantly higher， the recovery time of the experimental group was significantly less， and the prognosis of the experimental group was significantly higher，the serum IL-8 and IL-6 in the experimental group were higher， and mortality was significantly lower in the experimental group，the differences between the two groups were statistically significant（P<0.05）. The difference was no statistically significant in the overall success rate of resuscitation between the two groups（P>0.05）. Conclusion Centralized nursing management model has ideal nursing effect in cardiopulmonary resuscitation patients with cardiogenic cardiac arrest， which can reduce the stress response and improve the blood gas index effectively. And it can promote the recovery of the patients， and improve the prognosis of the patients， it is worthy of application and promotion.
　　[Key words] Cardiogenic cardiac arrest；Cardiopulmonary resuscitation；Centralized nursing management model； Stress response   　　本研究选取的样本病例88例为我院收治的心源性心脏骤停心肺复苏患者，常规护理管理的患者44例为对照组，予以集中护理管理模式的患者44例为实验组，对两组患者护理管理效果进行比对和分析。结果显示，与对照组相比，实验组患者的复苏1h成功率明显较高、成功复苏消耗时间明显较少、预后良好率明显较高，复苏后实验组患者的血清IL-8、IL-6均明显较优，两组比较差异均有统计学意义（P<0.05）；而两组患者复苏总成功率比较，差异无统计学意义（P>0.05）。从研究结果中显示，集中护理管理模式不仅能缩短复苏成功时间，同时还能提升1 h 成功复苏率，且可有效降低应激反应，改善患者预后，为下一步治疗奠定基础。
　　综上所述，在心源性心脏骤停心肺复苏患者予以集中护理管理模式具有理想的护理效果，可有效减轻应激反应，值得应用和推广。


